1. init
    git init
    You can use git init to initialize a local Git repository.
    
2. config
    git config --global user.name gunjan
    git config --global user.email gunjan@gmail.com
    Use git config to configure your personal information. 
    
3. add
    git add file.txt
    The git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area.
    
4. commit
    git commit -m "commit message"
    Use the git commit command to commit changes to the file to the cache
    
5. clone
    git clone https://github.com/Gunjan/work
    Use git clone to clone the remote repository by specifying a URL.
    
6. .gitignore
    vim .gitignore
    Use text editor to edit the.gitignore file. The.gitignore file records files that need to be ignored at commit time to avoid unnecessary files being committed to the remote repository.
    
7. status
    git status
    This is a very common command used to check the current status of git caches and workspaces.
    
8. rm
    rm file.txt
    rm removes each file specified on the command line. By default, it does not remove directories. 
    
9. stash
    git stash
    Git maintains a stack to keep track of temporary changes. When using a Git Stash file, the file will revert to the previous commit state. 
    
10. mv
    git mv f1.txt f2.txt
    mv command is used to rename files.
    
11. mkdir
    mkdir src
    mkdir command is used to create new directory or file.
    
12. log
    git log
    The git log command displays a record of the commits in a Git repository.
    
13. tag
    git tag new_tag
    Git tag tag_name Specifies the hash value of the current commit tag.
    
14. commit amend
    git commit --amend
    use git commit --amend to modify the current commit. 

15.reset
    git reset
    use git reset to rewind history without changing the contents of your local files,
    
16. checkout
    git checkout master
    The git checkout command lets you navigate between the branches created by git branch.
    
17. remote
    git remote
    The git remote command allows accessing the connection between remote and local. 
    
18. pull
    git pull origin master
    Use the Git pull command to pull code from a remote repository.

19. diff
    git diff 
    git diff lists out the changes between your current working directory and your staging area.
    
20. merge
    git merge 
    merge command is used to merge difeerent branches.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
